all right
[Music]
so
all right all right all right all right
all right
best
week
ever good morning good afternoon good
evening no matter where you're coming
from i hope you are doing
well
welcome everybody best week ever just
getting started today's day one
day one a week is seven days long
today's day one best week ever
thank you for being here thank you for
coming
hope you all are doing well we got a lot
of fun stuff tonight folks a lot of fun
stuff
we're gonna make this
the best week
ever
we're celebrating
a hundred
plus
jobs
we came together as a community with one
goal and that goal was to get a hundred
plus
jobs we got it we blew past it you've
been in that celebrations channel's been
poppin off
we're well past 100.
this is the celebration week for that
and boy we got a lot of exciting stuff
we got some stuff today
we got some stuff
tomorrow
we got some stuff thursday we got some
stuff friday we got some stuff saturday
we got some stuff sunday we got some
stuff monday and then we come back on
tuesday for the last day of the best
week ever
so let's go
tonight we're going to do what we always
do
questions we're going to talk about the
best week ever all the stuff we got
planned for this week then we're going
to get our review on we're going to get
through functions we're going to get
through a raise we're going to get
through objects and if we have some time
we'll start with our apis so lots of fun
stuff to get into but you know like how
we like to do
you got questions i got answers
question of the day
is are you going rock
paper or scissors or
not risking any of your channel points
rock paper scissors are not risking any
channel points
indifferent yo
how's it going how's it going
so much stuff to happen there we like
had a huge height train before we even
started
melody thank you for the raid
indifferent a thank you for the 10
gifted subs i appreciate you thank you
so much
i see some folks a lot of paper
a lot of rock no risk i'm not risking
i'm so close i'm so close not risking it
too precious i love to see it well we're
going to get some yolos folks we can't
have
day one of the best week ever without
some yolo so there will be some yolos
later if you really if you're feeling
lucky you want to put those channel
points on the line i got you i got you
i always like to give folks a few
seconds to get in here so if you got
questions i got
answers when is the code newbie podcast
coming out uh it's coming out in may so
yesterday
uh it was really awesome i got to hang
out with the code newbie folks and uh
we're gonna be on the code newbies
podcast in may
it was my first podcast
it's it's a little bit different than
being on twitch i did like seren and uh
levi made me feel really comfortable but
it's a different ball game i got i got
to get some pr training or something i
gotta i gotta get my my facts dialed in
i felt like i rambled too much but i
think i think we got we got our point
across i think we got in there uh so i'm
really looking forward to it uh and
hopefully that will be out in may with
their next season yeah code newbies
podcast is awesome if you're looking for
like a um
if you're looking for like a really
welcoming
newcomer podcast uh then that's it
so my maybe my best week ever started
yesterday but y'all starts today
are you drinking whiskey now just some
water with some
berry mix in it
alrighty folks
completed my first cold wars all by
myself a felt pump that's awesome dimes
good to hear it
first troy with the podcast exactly
static
you be fancy with the water i i just buy
frozen berries and i put it in my water
i don't know if that makes me fancy or
not but i quite enjoy it
alrighty folks
let's jump into
getting this show on the road best week
ever day one
of many many many to come so
i want to start off tonight's class
with something that i think is
very important to bring up and that is
to check in
if you haven't checked in yet go ahead
and give this a like and a retweet uh
remember that
when you when you type check in here in
chat that doesn't do anything
you have to go to twitter and do the
liking and the retweeting there are some
folks that think just typing in like
bang check and doesn't no that just
brings up the link so it's going to be
clear so that way you're you're doing
the liking and the retweeting so that
when we get the end and you need help
you've checked in
just to make sure everybody's on the
same page i didn't realize that some
people thought that that's that's how it
worked but you actually got to go to
twitter and do it
all right i see a lot of people that are
like uh oh
god got some classes then gonna go back
through
oh no
he got got exactly
oh boy
great thank you for checking in but
seriously
there's something that i want to bring
up
my promise when we started this boot
camp
is that i go at the pace of the cohort
and my promise with this boot camp
is that as things get tough
i will do my best to pull you back into
the roller coaster
what you got to realize
is that we are all on the same ride some
of us might be in a few seats above so a
few of us might be a few seats back but
we're all on the same roller coaster
ride together
and we're going to go
together
nobody's getting left behind we go
together we don't go
at all
now
if
things recently have been bumpy for you
the roller coaster feels like it's
shaking a little too much
that's okay
you are absolutely
not alone
if a raise threw you through a loop
and your loops gave you properties and
methods and the whole thing's getting
jumbled that's all right
you're probably at the back of the
roller coaster still coming down the big
dip you're still being beyonce but
you're screaming a little too loud i got
you don't worry
don't worry
i don't know
if anyone's told you yet
but this learning the code stuff is
pretty hard
there there's a reason
why not everyone is a developer
and it has nothing to do with aptitude
it has nothing to do with their ability
to be good at math
it has to do with everything to do with
not giving up
finding good ways to manage their
frustration
being consistent and taking care of
themselves so
tonight i know a lot of you
are in a rough place
with
the current material and that's okay
what we're gonna do tonight is we're
gonna we're gonna dial down some things
and turn some other things up so we're
gonna give you a little bit of breathing
room in some areas and dial up some
things in other areas and so if you feel
like you're a little behind you feel
like things are going a little too fast
i got you
we're gonna we're gonna dial some things
down refocus in some other areas so we
can get through it together now
if you're one of the folks that are
saying leon i'm in the front of the
roller coaster this is great
right i'm my hands are still up i'm
having my best life that's great
we're gonna go together
or not at all
so if you're not committed to getting to
the promised land together if you're not
committed and pulling the folks that are
a little bit further behind you on this
roller coaster ride along with you this
is not the community for you
we'll stop
and so
what i need is if you feel that you're
in the front
start doing the things
that the students that i've had that
have gotten the best opportunities have
done
if i look at my students that have
gotten the best roles the the students
that have gone straight to fang
they've always had one
very important factor
that none of my other students had
what they did is they helped others
around them
because here's a funny thing
when you help others that are around you
you solidify concepts
things that were just on the grasp of
your knowledge
right things that were just in the grasp
of your knowledge become things that are
solidified in your brain when you go
into a technical interview you're not
just answering questions you're talking
from experience it's not only your bugs
that you've health solved but the bugs
of all the other folks that you helped
along the way so when you go into those
interviews
it's not just you it's all the folks
that help that are there with you so if
you're in the front of the car
it's time to turn around and pull some
folks forward if you're in the back of
the car it's time to look forward and
see those hands that are reaching out
for you
ask questions
jump in those discord
voice channels
ask for help
because we're going together
or not at all
so
i wanted to bring up that very very
important fact
you're not alone
if arrays were hard you're not alone if
code wars is hard you're not alone if
objects are hard you're not alone if the
networking is hard you're not alone if
getting the client was hard you're not
alone
if
any part of this process
has been causing you
strife and stress you're not alone
you have hundreds of folks that are
going through a very similar experience
whether they're vocal about it or not i
guarantee you it's happening and so what
we're going to do
is we're going to go through this trough
of sorrow together
you're in it i don't know if anybody
told you yet but you're in it you're in
the trough of sorrow pretty firmly in
the trough of sorrow
we're getting real mucky
it's going to get harder it will it'll
get harder but what we're going to do is
we're going to focus on learning
i want to be able to turn up
the
content that we're doing in class the
learning that we're doing we got to get
through objects and we're getting right
into back end
it's going to be a few more classes and
then we're doing back-end web
development so if you feel like things
have been flowing for you great guess
what in a couple weeks like two weeks
we're in back end
yeah
so here's one thing that i've also
always noticed
some folks the html and css clicks and
it comes easy
for some folks that never happens
for some folks the javascript clips and
comes easy and for some folks they
struggle with it for a little bit while
longer and then for some folks they get
to the back end and that's their
favorite part of the actual learning to
code journey the the html css didn't
make sense the javascript didn't make
sense but the back end just clicks
so give yourself
the chance
to be surprised by the back end
you can't throw in the town now nobody's
getting off this ride
right
we we got some other loop-de-loops to do
and they're going to be scary but
they're going to be exciting and give
yourself the ability to be surprised at
the next thing that might click a little
bit faster than these things have
already so
we're going to go through the trough of
sorrow
we're going to go together
at this point we need to come together
as a community
this happened last cohort last cohort i
put out this call and it made the
beautiful community that we have now
if you feel like things are clicking
please give us some of your time to help
others that are around you that need the
help because i guarantee you i guarantee
you even if you're just the most selfish
[__] on this planet helping
others will make sure that you do better
in interviews
and if
and if that's the motivation you need
all right let's do it
but i guarantee you helping others will
get you a little bit further it'll help
solidify concepts it'll make things
stick in and if you feel like there's
some gaps that you have some things that
aren't making sense and things that
aren't clicking now's the time to ask
don't you dare
post that you're lost
don't you dare post that things don't
make sense if you haven't been up in
that discord asking a ton of questions
popping into voice channels
hello i need some help
now's the time
squeaky wheels
get the javascripts
cool
now to focus on all this learning
to focus on this learning we got to do
some things
the first thing we got to do
all right
so i'm allowed to if i have right yeah
of course if you've done that you can go
ahead knock yourself out
thing you have to keep in mind
we are at the point
where
your health is the utmost important
thing for you making it to the end
your hands are going to be stressed your
shoulders can be stressed your eyes are
going to be stretched your neck is going
to be stressed your brain is going to be
stressed you've been doing a lot of work
you've been doing a lot of reading a lot
of homework a lot of screen time
if you don't invest in taking care of
yourself right now you won't make it to
the end or you'll make it to the end but
you'll you'll probably be hurt
you have to realize that sometimes you
might need to take a break sometimes you
might need to take a breather from class
that's okay
take that break take that breather do
the things that you need to do always
set a date to come back always say it's
just for this one class
right
but put your health first if you need to
take time for yourself that's okay
remember this is a marathon not a sprint
we'll always be here to help pull you
along after you take that breather
please when we take our breaks get up if
you're able move around walk around
hydrate i'm telling you this stuff
becomes really important don't be one of
my students that goes to the hospital
because they didn't stretch their
fingers and hands don't be one of my
students that goes to the hospital
because they have leg pain because
they've been sitting for too long
at the point now where the work is going
to get more intense and the amount of
time that we're focusing will get longer
you're going to be building stuff now
real projects and you're going to get
you're going to get into it you're going
to hit that flow state
right you're going to hit this flow
state and when you hit that flow state
you're not going to want to get up
pomodoro becomes really really important
cool
how first
now i said this is the best week ever
and so for some of you this might be the
best news of the best week ever
we're going to stop networking until may
so it's end of march we're taking all of
april off for networking because we need
to focus on code
so no networking all of may
and
as always
don't ever let me stop you from doing
the things that you want to do don't let
anybody that is an educator or that
spouts off on twitch stop you from doing
the things that you want to do
i would love if you would take the next
month to focus on the code
and dial down your networking but if
networking is your [__] and you know
that it's going to help you get the job
go for it it's all right but what i'm
asking is that you i i see where folks
are at right now i feel like we need to
chill on the networking a little bit we
need to focus on the homework we need to
focus on the reading we need some of
that time back we need some of that time
back if you have appointments already
keep them if you have your coffee chats
lined up that's okay
but dial back a little bit so that we
can focus on
the actual code
focus on finishing up objects and apis
in that transition into a little bit of
theory and then end
cool
no networking until may
client deadlines can be pushed all the
way to may 3rd
some people are like hold on 10 second
warning
i said that and some people in the
background were like
[Music]
all right
no networking all of april client
deadline gets pushed to may 3rd
because i want you to spend a little bit
more time focusing
focusing on the work that we got to get
done the reading the tutorials that
we're going to do
all right
we also mentioned this idea of client
alternatives if you've given it the good
old 100 devs try or you're in a position
where you can't get a paid client due to
visa status or anything that might cause
you harm there are two alternatives that
you may do
this is for everyone so if you if you
really feel like you've given it the
whole dungeon devs try you have really
exhausted all the steps we talked about
in our freelancing class here are two
things that would also count
uh the first thing is volunteering for a
grassroots organization
a group that is a community group that's
on the ground doing great work probably
in your local area
it's okay to approach them ask if they
need a web presence to see if they want
to
get a website built and you can do that
for no money
notice i didn't say free because it's
not free but you can do it for no money
now i'm distinguishing here between like
a grassroots organization and a
non-profit
just because non-profits typically have
some money
like some of the biggest clients i've
ever worked with have been non-profits
and so a lot of more established they've
been around for a while non-profits
actually do have a lot of money whereas
a lot of newer kind of boots on the
ground type organizations might not have
any collective funds that pay for a web
developer and could get a lot of benefit
out of your services that you're
volunteering however
when you
volunteer your time
you still do the exact
same process
you still do a proposal
you still do
a contract
you still say that there are terms
in which you are going to be paid and
how you are going to be paid
is that you are asking them that when
you complete the services that they will
be the best
reference customer that you have ever
ever had and you put that in the
proposal you put that in the contract
it's no money down but you are signing
up to be the best
the best recommendation that i have ever
had in my life
right and so the idea here
is that this will help you when you get
into the job search because the employer
can actually talk to someone that you've
worked with that you've done amazing
work for and that'll help you get past
some interviews or or seal the deal on
an offer
it can also help you land other paid
clients so if for some reason you're not
able to land the paid client or you have
a
a situation where you're not allowed to
then this could be one of the first
really big things that you could do that
still helps you in the long run of
getting a job and eventually developing
and getting those other clients
is it okay to skip the proposal go
straight to the contract i don't think
so i want you to get practice right all
of this is practice the first time do it
the traditional way after you've done a
few you can see what you like what you
don't like and modify the process to
your liking but get that full experience
first
when employers talk to our clients they
ask if they paid us for what we built
them most often not sometimes they will
and you'll just you'll just coach your
your your person to say if someone asked
you did you get paid say i'm not
comfortable disclosing how much we paid
so when you when they say i'm not
comfortable disclosing how much i paid
that assumes that they paid
but really they didn't they just don't
feel comfortable disclosing it
that's the big brain plays at play right
here that's all i got to say
so yeah so
grassroots volunteering a-okay in my
book to satisfy the requirements of
getting a client
the next thing that you can do if for
some folks they can't even volunteer
depending on their situation uh and so
if getting a paid client isn't a thing
and you can't do grassroots volunteering
i think this is the best the second best
thing to do is the grassroots
volunteering
if you can't do this
the
the last thing that you can do that can
be really beneficial in the job search
process
is
contributing to free software or open
source projects
and so you would find a project that
you're passionate about something that
aligns with your interest and
contributes some code to that project
and the reason why this can be really
helpful with the job search is that
you're going to be working with real
engineers
shipping real code that makes it into
real products and so when you're in an
interview and they ask like what have
you built you say oh do you know x y and
z project well i did this thing for it
or
i i worked on this feature for this
project and you can explain the code
that you've written you can see that
code live on github which we'll learn
about on thursday
and
once again it's one of those things that
can take the the new developer stench
off of you
right
and so
there are some ways to get started with
free software
and one of the best ways to do it is
this website that i have linked here on
the slides called first
timers only
first timers only is a collection of
projects that are super welcoming to
folks that have never contributed to
free software or open source projects in
the past and so you can go through you
can see the projects
you can see if there are any that like
align with your interest and you'll find
hopefully a community of engineers that
are welcoming and want to see you
contribute for the first time
and so it's um
it's a really great place to start if
you know you want to contribute to free
software open source or you can also
just look for projects that you're
interested in there are so many things
out there that are aligned with your
interest that you could find and talk to
the organizers of that project to see if
there's anything that you could add
a lot of my students get started maybe
just like cleaning up documentation
doesn't even have to be necessarily code
to get your feet wet it can be other
things that until you get comfortable
with the project how they do things and
then work your way up to code as well so
first timer only
is a great place to start but also don't
be afraid to reach out to projects that
you like for example like if you like
chess there's leeches it's a wonderful
community of developers that are
building uh a free chess server so you
could do that right and so
if you can't
do a paid client or you've given it the
full 100 devs try you tried everything
on that list the two alternatives are
volunteering for grassroots org but you
still do the whole process or
contributing to free software
cool
i'm going to try and do it all hey turn
up
does it have to be in javascript no but
you'll probably bear maybe a little bit
better if it is javascript especially
since you're going to be using your
javascript skills to apply to jobs and
showing that you have built a project or
contributed in javascript can be helpful
does it help to volunteer for
organizations that are like a little bit
larger um it can
it's a great way of networking
volunteering has always been the best
thing i have ever done for networking
volunteering at conferences is how i've
made most of my adult friends
uh so yeah it it it can be a great way
to meet people it can be a great way to
get engaged with a local community of
engineers and that you now have a common
bond between so i'm a big fan of
volunteering
whether it be for like code contribution
or just like in general to some other
organizations in your area
i have a client but they only do a
shopify site does that count hell yeah
as long as they're paying you monies
is streaming a good networking
opportunity do you think absolutely
actually one of the best things you can
do to build a small community of
engineers that know who you are
the only problem with um
the only problem with
streaming is that it's not localized so
you get a wider net which can be helpful
maybe for remote positions if you're
looking for local positions that's the
only thing that's the only downside
the squarespace count hell yeah they're
paying you for it
outreachy is an open source internship
uh for
uh for folks yes
uh so if you are looking for
if you are
a person of color
if you're a non-traditional kind of
individual coming into tech
i hate that word but if you're looking
for
kind of like
a good place to get started in free
software outreach is a really good place
to do that what they do is they take
folks that are not traditionally
represented in tech and they pair them
up with really big orgs like mozilla
right
or
um
or like any other big free software
companies and they actually pay you a
stipend over the summer to work on those
projects and so it can be a great great
place to start i can share that in our
follow-up after today's class on discord
major league nope that's not true
there's a lot of other things that they
look for as well
now there's a bunch of things that are
kind of like that they fall just folks
that are not traditionally
in tech
cool so
we have
our alternatives which are contributing
to grassroots orgs
and we have contributing to free free or
uh open source software check out first
timers only as a good place to get
started i'll share some other folks
i'll share some other folks
other places to get started as well in
the follow up today's class
cool
alrighty monday we are doing our live
portfolio and resume
review
so
we got a bunch of a bunch of things that
are coming up this week uh i've asked
for you to submit your portfolios and
resumes uh so monday we are going to
have our
our roast session exactly uh we're gonna
have a
a row session it's gonna be a a class on
monday uh it'll course it'll be recorded
if you can't make monday but like i said
this is the best week ever so we're
doing something every single day of the
week so
if you can't make it on monday it's okay
it'll be recorded but we're gonna go
through as many folks as i can in about
an hour or two looking at portfolios
looking at resumes looking at the things
i think are super important to have in
in part of your portfolio in your resume
and then at the end i'll share good
templates for your resume and templates
for your portfolio as well
right
uh youtube was a little behind i am
almost caught up with youtube now uh a
lot of folks use youtube to watch the
videos uh sorry i got a little behind on
them they are caught up now we our first
class on objects is on there and um
you'll see the next class on objects
come up uh tomorrow so the the the
youtube's always going to be a day or
two behind because of our contract with
twitch but i try to get them as quickly
as possible
i always appreciate folks that watch on
youtube if you're watching on youtube
please give it a like that's all i ask
uh it really does help the the algorithm
for more folks to find it on youtube
which is always
wonderful because then more folks find
out about 100 devs and they find out
about the bootcamp where they don't have
to pay a lot of money
or any money at all so that's the goal
uh youtube is very finicky i noticed
like if i post at the wrong time or i i
miss a day or two like our numbers just
tank it's pretty wild um like the
difference between like 3 000 and a
thousand is just like posting at a
different time of day it's really
interesting so
uh if you're on youtube please give it a
like leave a comment it really does help
the algorithm and folks finding us on
youtube
and also if you're just trying to watch
the classes
youtube doesn't have any ads and it's
easier to jump around too
alrighty newsletter uh if you're part of
the newsletter you might have noticed
today uh that there was a
special
newsletter raffle
and so i'm gonna go ahead and
take all the responses from the
newsletter raffle today and we're gonna
pick a random winner and that winner
will be getting a 100 devs t-shirt
that's right folks 100 devs t-shirt
coming your way
for the winners of this special
newsletter raffle if you didn't if you
didn't read the newsletter you didn't
open up you didn't submit the raffle too
late
all right so i'm going to grab these
here
i love all the people doing it like
right now as a as i'm in the
as i'm in it
so i'm grabbing
from before i set it
from before class started
all right we're going to go from here up
now i'm just grabbing all the names so
we can put them into the name picker
all right
grab them all
let's do a random name picker
boom thirteen hundred of y'all before i
said it uh so let's go ahead and pick a
random name
three two one
boom
jerkson hey thank you
for opening the newsletter uh send me a
mon mail please on discord i'll send a
mod mail and we will get the
we will get the
t-shirt your way
congratulations
see folks it pays to open the newsletter
it definitely pays to open newsletters
on the best week ever
imagine that
uh your your newsletter was going to
junk this whole time convertkit's pretty
good about delivering the the letters uh
but i would always appreciate if you
like white listed my email uh that way
your uh emails always came through and
if you use gmail adding it to primary
just so you always see them it really
does help
for some reason those ratios in terms of
deliverability really help
so i appreciate it
all right
the next big news we have is that well
we have stream tonight
well we also have a stream tomorrow
folks and it won't be me
uh i want to welcome hello it's rufio to
the stream
team hold on we got a 10 second warning
here we got we just got to do a quick
quick confetti i think this is
appropriate for this
all right
[Music]
welcome welcome welcome to the stream
team i'm so excited to have them um
you'll notice there is a stream team
channel in the 100 dev section of our
discord
members of the stream team can post
there and i will ask that you turn on
notifications for that channel you can
like turn on notifications for that
channel that way when folks of the
stream team go live you get a message
just like you get a message from me so
we're gonna walk through that this week
on how to do that but the first new
member of the stream team
welcome and tomorrow
they are streaming normal time 6 30 pm
they're going live and they're working
through some cold wars
so many folks have been struggling with
cold wars don't know how to get started
don't know how to approach the problems
and so they are going to take the time
to
make sure
right
that you feel comfortable and you can
see you can see their process right
they're going to share kind of how they
do it you can ask tons of questions and
so i'll be hanging out there tomorrow
we're going to do some raffles over
there as well so you definitely want to
come hang out and so tomorrow night 6 30
p.m if you want to do some code wars
come hang out
and welcome to the stream team
thursday
sponsored stream
so not tomorrow thursday night we got a
sponsor stream so tonight we have day
one of best night ever tomorrow we have
hello it's rufio streaming for the first
time as part of the stream team they do
amazing streams by the way just building
wonderful things great community
talking with folks building you're gonna
have a lot of fun i'll be over there
tomorrow then thursday we have a
microsoft sponsored stream we're we're
wilding out folks we are wilding out we
are
we have so much swag from microsoft to
give out we have some laptops to give
out i'm matching uh
swag as well i'll explain that in a
second and so
come back thursday for normal class it's
a get in github class we're going to
make get the terminal and github makes
sense and it's sponsored so you're going
to come and have a fun time
if you haven't yet already part of the
homework was to click this link
and when you click this link
there is this like email form if you
fill out the email and you let microsoft
send you some lovely lovely emails
because they are sponsoring a stream for
us where they're giving a ton of swag
and they're giving away laptops and
they're supporting the 100 devs
community if you give them your email uh
you will be entered into another laptop
raffle so you definitely want to do that
and then you'll notice
i'm going to i already submitted it so
i'm going to skip but you shouldn't skip
you should do it
and then
you'll notice that there are two
resources here getting started with
github and introduction to github i want
you to do the introduction to github
please that was part of your homework
after you've done the video that i
shared so if you haven't yet please go
ahead and take a peek at this
introduction to github before thursday's
class and as always homework is a first
pass we'll always do the complicated the
important bits together during stream
cool if you need that link you can do
exclamation point ms in chat and it'll
give you this link if you don't have the
slides pull up
yeah
cool
then friday we're doing friday with
friends that's right folks tonight
tomorrow thursday friday
we are doing
friday with friends it's going to be our
first session of friday with friends
friday we're friends is going to be uh
spaces we're gonna do mainly kind of uh
discord spaces where you can have events
on discord we'll probably do a few on
twitter as well but it's just a place
for us to bring folks that are part of
the community
it's a way for us to
uh bring alumni to come talk to you to
bring other folks that are that want to
help and support the 100 devs community
to come together so we're going to kick
off friday with friends we're gonna try
and do it quite regularly uh in the
beginning and we'll see how it plays out
but the idea here is that friday we're
having friday with friends 6 p.m on
discord i'll share more a few surprises
to be had maybe a raffle or two i got
you
all right
saturday
told you best week ever we got we got
something every day of the week for you
if you want to be want to be here you
want to be with community you want to
you want to be with us for the whole
week i got you
this saturday well
april 1st which is technically friday
our place is coming back
for folks that don't know our place was
one of
reddit's
open
one of reddit's april fool's pranks from
i don't know like 2017 i think it was
and what it was is an all-out battle
to place tiles on a map it's one of the
funnest experiences i've ever had on the
internet
and since so many of us have come from
reddit
i thought it'd be really fun to battle
it out to hold down our place
on our place
so saturday there will be a channel on
discord for folks that want to organize
and try and lock down a place on our
place i think we have enough folks to do
it i think we have enough folks on
reddit to do it so i think that'd be a
fun project for all of us to work on
it'll be something fun come hang out
we'll be in voice channels we'll be in
tech channels that will open
specifically for our place here's what
it looked like last time
and so you're gonna see kind of like all
these communities that came together to
kind of capture uh their little slice of
place we had the blue wave that was
constantly trying to take over yeah
different countries showing out
different communities showing out and so
i think we could hold it down i think we
could uh figure out how to uh to hold
down a little slice for 100 devs so
saturday if you're looking to have some
fun you want to hang out with a bunch of
your 100 devs members
come through on discord we're going to
have a lot of fun and try and hold down
a spot on our place
cool
baby jacob congrats that's great all
right
office hour sunday baby come on the best
week ever we got to keep it coming we
got office hours on sunday we're going
to do the thing like we normally do
have a lot of fun
maybe a little bit more fun than normal
i don't know you got to check it out
then monday we kind of already mentioned
it we're calling it mentor monday
we are going to have a place for folks
that want to be mentors in the 100 devs
community are folks that want to support
the 100 devs community
we're going to start off by having a
little session on like how to
help folks with portfolios and resume
reviews and then we're going to do the
live portfolio and resume review so
you'll alumni you'll be getting a
message from me because that's where
we'll start with mentor mondays
and then we'll kind of start opening it
up to more and more folks but the idea
is that we want to start building
systems and helping train folks and the
things that i do every day i want to
help other folks learn how to do those
things so they can support our community
as well so we're bringing mentor mondays
uh to fruition in the best week ever and
then after that kind of chat session
with the alumni mentors uh we will go
ahead and do a portfolio resume review
that will be live so that portfolio
resume review will be live at 6 00 p.m 6
p.m i forgot to put uh 6 p.m on there
yeah
when is our place taking place we're
going to be having it open all weekend
it's going to be uh all saturday it'll
be open uh we'll leave the channels open
and so uh you don't feel like it doesn't
be a specific time just come hang out if
you want to try and hold it down
all right all this is eastern time yup
alrighty
and then
next tuesday
is the best week ever
the end
hmm
well it's got as the gift says there's
got to be a banger so next tuesday we're
doing it really big a lot of things that
we're kind of just laying in the ground
we're for today
next tuesday
next tuesday's a banger
cool
so best week ever
we have
a thing that people have been asking for
for a very long time and that is merch
so
i wanted to bring merch back
and we're going to start with a very
very limited run i want to show you the
og merch uh that everyone has a chance
to win with the raffles on thursday and
tomorrow and the rest of the week so the
the og merch will be available soon now
a few of you
tried to get into the chat early i saw
you throwing the the exclamation point
merch into the chat you got gap
none of this stuff was live
you couldn't you couldn't get it until i
uh until i pressed the magical button so
it's going to sell out i think pretty
quickly uh just so everyone knows
all the merch is at cost so as cheap as
i can set the
metric is how cheap it is
there's no profit on any of this
except for one thing
every single time i do a merch drop i
have one thing that has the max profit
and that max profit item
is always something that comes along
with the only fans match
so the max profit item always has an
only fans match
um and so i got to get paid for my only
fans and so
it's like i think it's like a 20 buck
profit or something like that it's
always supposed to be a joke but
somebody always buys it uh so it's know
that it's a joke i don't want you to buy
it but if you do when the first person
reaches only fans you get only fans too
that's right folks it's how you get it
the only way in you get a million
channel points or you buy the the only
fans match so nothing showing up yet
because i haven't clicked the magical
buttons
but i can go ahead and click those
buttons now so
let's go ahead and
boom
and boom there we go
uh the merch should be live you can do
exclamation point merch
and uh stuff will come through you might
have to give it a little bit of a a
refresh and then you'll see it come live
oh boy
they're off to the to the races here um
i'm gonna pull up my merch panel here
just so i can i can see it
make sure everything's working
and go to the store
oh yeah
it's live folks it's live
[Laughter]
i can bring it on to the window here uh
you can see the the the the three lovely
items that are up
we have uh first and foremost
uh the
uh special cut of the
uh engineering v1 and then we have the
the another kind of cut of the
engineering v1 uh they're limited
quantities of both
and uh
there's only one
only fans match
and so that that's super limited
and
looks like we're good all right
i think it should be live
all right there we go
alrighty folks have fun if that's what
you want and that's what we'll be giving
away for the raffles this week let me
pull it up real quick this is what i'll
be giving away for the raffles this week
uh the the regular kind of two t-shirts
whenever you win a raffle you'll get to
pick
you'll get to pick either one of these
cuts whatever you like and that'll be
coming your way if you're getting server
errors i'm pretty sure that they sold
out
but don't worry don't worry remember i
said
tuesday
would be a banger
so there will be a lot more merch on
tuesday as well some other fun things
these are the og ones that i wanted
folks to see
and
so they knew what they were getting with
the raffles this week
i think some folks found the donation
page hey thank you for the donors i
appreciate you
already
we did merch
and the last thing i want to do
uh the best week ever would not be our
best week ever
without thanking a lot of people
uh-oh i forgot to turn up that sound off
well if you bought merch i think you're
you're about to pop up here
sold out faster than the ps5 yeah there
wasn't that oh
there wasn't that many that were that
were available
and weren't that many that were
available
i wanted to do a test run real quick to
make sure it still worked and to for
folks to see what was coming up with the
raffles
but i'm pretty sure they they sold out
like in two seconds
but that's all right
tuesday we're gonna do another drop
tuesday we'll do another drop but like i
said
it wouldn't be the best week ever
without thanking a lot of people
jason derulo hey thank you for the gift
it subs
and so
throughout the best week ever
i am going to do my best
to thank some folks that are amazing
contributors to this community
uh that have shown up for us time and
time again not not right now not right
now but i want to give them a special
place in each of these places that we
meet this week so this week
we have all these events we have an
event tonight tomorrow thursday friday
saturday sunday monday and next tuesday
and so over this
time there are some really important
people that i want to thank and so each
each day you're going to see me
highlight somebody different that has
been an amazing part of this community
and i think that's really important for
us to to do so when you see them get
shouted out give them some love give
them some praise because they they
absolutely deserve it
um
but before we kind of get into the rest
of the night i also want to thank every
single one of you um
this has been an amazing ride
nobody has ever done what we've been
able to do this many folks all learning
to code at the same time supporting each
other building each other up making sure
that we all get to the finish line
at the scale has never ever been done
and so
thank you for helping build what is
hands down the best community to learn
how to code live online right now hands
down you go on our discord at any time
of the day there are folks answering
questions there are folks in discord
channels i could have never guessed a
little over a year ago that this is what
would become of just a few classes on
twitch so
huge huge thank you to every single
person that comes up that comes every
single class that
puts in the work when things get hard
that doesn't give up on themselves when
the things aren't sinking in gives me
the trust to know that we'll figure out
how to get there together that
like stuff that retweets stuff that
helps other folks that are hurting and
could use this opportunity to find us
i know it seems really silly but when
you thumbs up stuff on youtube or you
retweet stuff on twitter that helps more
folks find us
that's folks that don't have to splash
out
big bucks for a boot camp that can
join the catch-up crew or learn at their
own pace and have the support of a super
strong community that helped them make
it to the end and so for every single
person that's ever done anything
that shows up that likes that retweets
that does even those those things that
you think might be small but have a huge
impact i am overwhelmingly thankful so
thank you to each and every single
person that shows up and as we go
throughout this week i'm going to take
time to thank these folks that have
helped build this community over the
last year
cool
everybody
we are at the top of the hour this is
the best week ever i know i had to take
a little time to do all these things but
what what uh what a good start to the
best week ever we got some amazing merch
we got some amazing events all
throughout this entire week
let's go ahead and bring our timer up
remember we got to be healthy even even
during the best week ever we got to be
healthy let's go ahead and bring up our
timer please if you're able get up move
around hydrate
kiss some babies play with some dogs
and when we come back in five minutes
we're gonna jump into our review we're
gonna review a little bit of everything
a little bit of a raise a little bit of
objects
start to have some fun and then uh we'll
take it from there all right folks five
minutes on the timer you got this i'm
gonna run some ads to actually take a
break i'll see you in 5.
um
do
retro we are a 30 week
software engineering bootcamp
all right folks 10 seconds then we're
back
negative 10 shirts ghosts that's
hilarious
have these alerts been coming in while
we're on break
what i think of web though i think it's
a cool tool to have in your tool belt
[Music]
yeah they have all right
welcome back folks let's jump into this
let's get some review on
alrighty i'm going to chill those alerts
i'm pretty sure
they're probably pretty loud
all right there you go
there you go i think the alert should be
done
already folks let's jump into it let's
get into our review this evening
all right programming
what is a program a program is a what
chat give it to me what's a program
set of instructions
so the act of programming is simply
writing
those instructions in a language the
computer can understand the language
that we choose is javascript
because we can learn one language use it
on the front end and in just a couple
classes use it on the back end too
it's highly in demand
and it's something that we can use to
communicate our ideas to each other
beautiful all right we learned about
variables variables are a way of storing
a value into memory to be used later on
we can do both declaration and
assignment at the same time there are a
lot of new folks here tonight if you're
new this is going to be a very quick
review we're on class 23 you can always
join our discord exclamation point
discord
get all the materials you need if you
want to follow along today or join our
catch-up crew and follow along your own
pace until you can join us live
already
we learned about conditionals where we
check to see if something is true if
it's true we do what's inside the curly
braces otherwise we move on to an else
if we check to see if what's true is
there if it is we do what's inside the
curly braces if not we move on to the
else the else does not have a condition
it automatically runs if nothing else
above it was true you can have as many
l-stiffs as you would like
we can always have multiple conditions
as well separated by the double
ampersand if your name is leon and your
status is ballin it's the best week ever
so you bet i am
you get a wink
at the camera
alrighty we can also have or
study time hey
thank you for the raid
it's been a minute how have you been
we got to get folks coming your way
hold on that's that's cool we haven't
seen you in a minute hope you're doing
well
let me do a shout out here
uh study time is one of the best folks
to be following if you're going through
this boot camp and you're not following
study time you have to
uh and i'll explain why in a second
let's see if i can do this here
there we go all right we got the shout
out
let me see if i can just copy and paste
that a bizillion times because there's
so many folks here
boom
it's going to copy and paste it
there you go you have to give them a
follow go ahead and give them a follow
beautiful
so
uh study time
amazing
pomodoro sessions where you can get
actual work done super chill super
relaxed if you haven't please give them
a follow
i i'm lurking in there quite often when
i need to get stuff done i'm hanging out
there uh so if you haven't go ahead and
give study time and follow thank you for
the raid hope you're doing well
hope your stream went well today i hope
you already get stuff done
welcome
all right
we gotta uh i'll send you a whisper we
gotta get folks we gotta figure out a
raid we gotta figure out the timing
right so we can get more folks to come
over your way because i feel like a lot
of folks in our community uh could could
benefit from your streams so we'll make
we'll figure out how to make that happen
all right we also have multiple
conditions for those that are actually
coming over that are new we're doing a
free 30-week software engineering
bootcamp here live on twitch and so
we're just getting some quick review of
some of the topics that we've already
covered so far
all right
all righty so multiple conditions we
have day equals saturday or day equals
sunday if it's saturday or sunday we
will see it is
the weekend
functions
what are functions chat
give me what is the function please
set of instructions exactly
set of instructions simply a set of
instructions
the set of instructions are reusable and
they become the building blocks of our
programs we can separate out these
functions into individual
pieces and use them as needed
we have our function declaration and our
function call whenever we call we call
to argue we pass in our arguments and
they fall into our parameters wherever
we see the parameter it's the values
that were passed in an example is when
we call the function yell we pass in the
argument of hello wherever i see word it
is indeed hello and we would alert hello
wonderful
loops chat with our loops
yeah whenever we need to do something
multiple times we can use a loop it's
just a repeating in action multiple
times there are a couple kind of main
loops that we started with like for and
while
i've seen a bunch of other loops now
specifically due to methods that are
tied to arrays we saw four reach we saw
map we saw reduced all these things that
are looping through and doing something
multiple times i love it
for loops we start with our counter we
say when our loop stops and how much our
counter goes up by each time so this
would console log all the numbers from
one to four because by the time we got
to five this is no longer true
alrighty we got some review in let's do
a turbo
review
you're gonna notice some of the
questions look a little familiar
i know some of the questions look a
little familiar
so go ahead and open up turbo review
if you don't have the starter code for
today make sure you join our discord
exclamation point discord agree to the
rules and then the following materials
channel you'll find the zip file for
today in that zip file you'll find the
turbo review
there are some variable questions some
function questions and it looks like
these uh function conditional loops
might be a little
similar get them done get your active
recalling get your space repetition in
and we're gonna put uh here come the
flexosaurus
let's let's put uh let's put let's put a
a a solid eight on the clock
solid eight in the clock
now let's do seven let's keep it spicy
let's keep it spicy
don't copy and paste do it from scratch
i see you no way you typed that fast get
out of here
all right folks seven minutes on the
clock you got this
blah added two more minutes thank you
blah
so this becomes a nine minute timer
all right nine minutes on the clock
folks have at it
you got this thank you
you got this dig in
try your best give it the old 100 devs
try
some of these variables and um function
questions they're gonna they're gonna
you're gonna need to maybe google some
stuff to figure out how to do it because
we might not have covered those methods
yet so
for folks that are kind that have done
the turbo review before there are some
different questions here
oh island sometimes
do we have to use conditionals uh no not
if you don't want to you can figure out
other ways go for it
looks like i'm sipping wine no i promise
you it's just it's just water
and some some berries
man these merch alerts still coming
through
thank you everyone that bought the merch
that's pretty cool i'm really excited to
see y'all
rep 100 devs og merch
would it code i open up a um slido for
the for the clips
law that's called bomber's peak
yeah there's like a certain level of
intoxication where it helps the coating
and then an immediate drop where it no
longer helps
yeah neurologic is long as cheap as
they'll let me sell them is what i sell
them at there's no profit on any of them
charlie said will you restock absolutely
we'll um
wait
did study time rate again
how's that possible did you go live then
come back
or is that or is this the alert just
coming through now
the alert not come through i guess
because of all the merch um alerts
show us study time again
definitely need to hang out there
if you're not already
how do you feel github co-pilot bad idea
to use if you're just learning yeah i
think in the beginning try and do things
that make you have to learn the syntax
and then as you get comfortable with a
language then you can use tools like
that for sure
that merge should have worked for anyone
we've had folks from all over the world
be able to get the merge through that
link so
um i'll double check to make sure
there's no settings in mind or anything
like that but it should have worked for
other any folks i think it just sold out
really really quick
ours no keep keep following through um
you there's there's the newer videos of
cohort 2. i might use those instead of
the
other cohort um just so that you're a
little bit closer to what we're doing
this this year
um and join the catch-up crew on discord
get through get caught up and then join
us live
except for office hours um
office hours i think you should still
come through
oh and for folks i'll mention this again
when we're back i know folks mute me
during the work time but uh i know that
everybody can afford to buy merch i try
to make as cheap as possible it's ten
dollars for the t-shirt but um i know
that that's not a privilege everyone has
and so uh for all the swag that
microsoft gives i match with like random
giveaways for for swag so hopefully
there's a chance you to get a shirt too
if you really want one
what if we can't attend every stream
this week you don't have to it's just
for us to have some time to celebrate
come as you can
don't worry about making them all i know
a lot of folks have other commitments in
life and jobs and so yeah no it's just
just for us to have some fun it's not
it's not something you have to commit to
what's wednesday it's hello it's rufio's
first stream as part of the stream team
i got you dab
it'll be on their own yep it'll be on
their own
can we win the laptop if we aren't in
the us yes i ship anywhere
in fact
it was like probably like a month ago
i just started getting back merch that i
sent last year
like i like i had shipped out some stuff
and it just didn't make it like i sent
it to some some places that
i mean it was it was a crap shoot if it
was gonna make it there but we tried
um and they got they got returned
unfortunately for some places but i'll
try
i'll try to ship it anywhere i can
uh yeah they'll hear back from mod mail
we're we'll probably won't be responding
about like raffles until the end of the
best week ever because there'll be so
many and then on like wednesday of next
week i'm just going to go through and
set up everything so that way i can ship
everything out
yeah you'll hear back from me probably
like next wednesday if you win something
like at any point this week
can't do the first question that's okay
this is i don't know i should be able to
know how to code this
these first two questions were
more you googling than you knowing how
to solve something
cloth that's awesome
yeah these first two ones are not things
that you should know is something that
you'd google to figure out
three you can do exclamation point
semicolon in chat and you can read about
all about it
it's with the first time chat just to
drop the dunzo on us i love it that's
how you use your first time
uh highlight
we learned docker some folks might pick
it up
based on like if they do free software
projects but it's not something that
we'll go deep on or like really cover in
class
or something that you might pick up on
your on the job
funk ketchup and then join us live once
you're caught up
oh one yeah we sold out within like a
minute
yeah i use docker all the time i love it
alrighty folks come on back come on back
so yeah you're eligible if you come to
you got to be in the class though
thank you sammy
all right come on back folks let's go
over this together
but let's look at some of the new ones
and we'll get the review together as
well uh will friday's best ever be
recorded yeah everything that we can
record will record yeah and we'll at
least share it on discord
cool
already declare a variable and assign it
to a sentence as a string alert if that
sentence is a question
um
how do we know if a sentence is a
question
first of all
yeah it ends in the question mark so
we would need to figure out whether or
not our string
ends
with a question mark so
what did you all figure out you could
use with strings
to figure out if a string ends with a
question mark
includes could work uh some folks found
ends with yeah that's what i think i
would use
uh so if you give it to google you might
have come across with ends with so let's
create a string uh
const because this is never going to
change
uh
let's say
it's just going to call it a string
we're going to say
is this the best week
ever
oh yeah
and so what we can do
is we can alert if the sentence is a
question because we can just go ahead
and alert
and we can pop in here straw ends with
and we can just pass in the question
mark so
if this ends with a question mark
right
what do you think we get
let's go ahead and let's go and save
this and see if it works first
open it in the browser
all right we get true boom we get true
so we know oh yeah [__] yeah let's go
beautiful all right thank you
yeah those turbo fits are
digging that
oh yeah
all right so we did get true
and so what do you know ends with
returned
what did it return
yeah return that that true or false
value and then we simply just alerted
that true or false so we know that our
string was a question because it ends
with a question mark now
there's no way that you would know this
unless you had read it
in some readings or had
maybe come across it on the mdn this is
something that you had to
google
right
oh because it's a function exactly it's
a function we're passing this in what i
have highlighted right here is
technically a what
what i have highlighted is a what
it's an argument like if i was to break
it down
this is a method
on a string
but right now we're passing in that
method on the string in as an argument
to the alert method
right
pretty cool
but i think there are some folks that
are like that they're like there's no
way i can figure this out ah they just
you just had to google and so getting
better at googling getting over that
initial
there's like that thing in our brain
that goes i don't know how to do this i
don't know how to do this i don't know
how to do this i can't do it i don't
know how to do it i'll never forget i
can't do it i can't do it i can't do it
can do it
[Laughter]
you got it you got to figure out how to
turn that off
this had nothing to do
with your ability to code javascript
this had nothing to do with how
how much you understand this was all
google
and so sometimes we have to turn off
that thing in our brain that says we
can't do it i don't know where to get
started i don't know what to do
and just freaking google it
well i said i just spent 3.5 work days
googling various things to untangle a
bug days and it's okay exactly this is
what you do on the job you sit down you
go [__] i have no idea how i'm going to
solve this
and then you google your ass off for
three three and a half days like blah
just did
that's being an engineer
so when you get a question that you just
have no idea you gotta fight that
feeling that thing that says you can't
figure it out and just google it
and spend time developing that skill set
because what you're gonna do on the job
and it gets better the more you do it
all right
declare a variable
assign it a string
of multiple words replace every junior
dev with software engineer and print it
to the console all right let's string
equal
i am looking for
junior dev
uh positions
there we go i am looking for junior dev
positions
nah
now what we do
is not what we do
all right cool so let's go ahead
what could i do to replace every mention
of junior dev
replace that could work maybe once
though replace all yeah let's go and do
replace all so we need to print it to
the console so we'll do our console log
and then inside of our console log
we are going to do string
or straw and we'll do replace
all
and then replace all takes in two values
it takes the thing that you want to
replace so in this case it'll be junior
dev we gotta make sure the spacing is
correct and we're gonna place it with
software
engineering
all right so what this will do is it'll
replace every junior dev
with software engineering let's go ahead
and save this
all right
let's save this
and let's open up the inspector
and let's go ahead and refresh
uncaught syntax there stra has already
been declared
happened
it's saved what happened
yeah we've already declared a variable
called stra
and it's a con so there's no way that we
could even override it down here
we're never changing our string to be
that we're looking for junior def
positions get the [__] out of here where
have you been if you thought this was
what we were going to leave it as so
we
we got to use a different name let's
let's do
string
to change
there we go string to change so i get a
little excited every once in a while
it's the best week ever
string to change
and we're going to replace it all so
let's save it
let's go back let's refresh
true
and i am looking for software
engineering positions let's go
turn up we got this second try
all right
next one
this is where it kind of gets similar
we've kind of seen these next three
questions already but that's okay
let's take some time and go through them
blunder no
alrighty
create a function that returns rock
paper scissors as randomly as possible
so what are some things we're going to
need to to do this randomly
what are some tools we're going to need
to generate rock paper scissors randomly
oh yeah when it gets to the bottom
that's when you know you're doing good
match.random exactly all right so let's
go ahead and we know we're going to
create a function
that returns rock paper scissors so i'm
just going to call this function
rock
paper scissors
and we're going to return either rock
paper scissors but before we do that
let's go ahead and create a variable
that'll hold our random number so let's
say let
random
equal and we'll do math.random
and math.random in case you forget
returns a number between zero and one so
we're going to get a decimal some number
between zero and one and so if we want
to do it equal values we'll do a
conditional
and we'll say
if
random
is less than what
0.33 exactly if it's less than 0.33
let's go ahead and return rock
we'll return a string of rock
uh elsif
else if
if uh random
is less than 0.66
we will return
paper
beautiful and if it wasn't less than
0.33 or less than 0.66 the only other
thing it can be
the only other thing it could be would
be greater than 0.66 so we can just do
an else
and in that case we'll return
scissors beautiful
great
so now we have a function that we can
call that will return rock paper or
scissors wonderful
create a function that takes in a choice
that takes in a choice
could you use fractions of decimals
probably yeah
just make sure you and you you use your
parentheses to keep it separated
could you make it into an arrow function
you could but i think this would be way
more readable the way it is
yeah i like the readability of this
all right
so let's do the next one here create a
function that takes in a choice
rock paper scissors and determines if
you want a game of rock paper scissors
against a bot using the above function
so we're going to create a function that
is going to
take in a choice that we use
and then compare it to the choice that
the bot generates using this function
above so i'm going to go here and
create a function i'm going to call it
uh check
win
and we know that we're taking in
player choice
right that the choice that the player is
going to pick and the very first thing
we have to do is get the bot choice
i'm going to set bot choice equal to
calling
rock paper scissors so what's going to
happen is the very first time well the
very first thing this function is going
to do
is run
the function we have up here
and we know that this function
right
we know that this function can spit out
rock
paper or scissors so there is an equal
chance
that this will wind up being either rock
paper
or scissors
so any any
there we go anywhere else
we see bot choice anywhere else we see
bot choice
we know that it's going to be either
rock
paper
or scissors
that's how you spell scissors by the way
cool
so now we got the bot choice we have to
do our comparison so we'll do our first
conditional
and we're just going to compare
like the the choice of the player
to the choice of the bot
and so if the player
choice equals
rock
and
the bot choice
equals what i want this to be winning
conditions so what would bot choice have
to be for us to win this very first
scenario
i'm going to put this in parentheses
just to be a little safer here
yeah it would have to be scissors
all right so player choice with the rock
bot choice of throw scissors that is a
win condition now we can check for some
other win conditions using ore so if
this is true
or
i'm going to copy and paste it actually
this is true so if the player threw
let's say scissors
and the bot choice through what if they
threw if bot choice it would have to
throw what to to for this to be a
winning throw
paper
oh y'all violet
that would have been funny if i thought
about it in the moment but i didn't
all right
scissors paper
scissors paper and we we have one more
or
so if this was true or this was true or
this was true
uh player choice equals
paper
they would have had to have chosen
bot would have had a chosen rock
great
so in this case
this case we now have all of our winning
conditions if they if the player chose
rock and bot chose scissors we win if
player chose scissors and bot choice was
paper we win if player choice was paper
and they threw rock we win so we have
our three
winning conditions separated by or and
so in this case we would just maybe log
to the console
winner
here we go win a winner chicken dinner
beautiful then we can do an elsif
and in our elsa if we can check for a
tie
and check for a tie would be a tie how
how would we determine the tie throw it
in chat for me how would we return
determine the cha the try
yep if player choice equals bot choice
player
choice equals
bot choice beautiful so player choice
equals bot choice
and we can console log
tide
and then if if you didn't win you didn't
lose the only other thing that you could
have happened
sorry if you won or if you didn't win if
you didn't tie the only thing that could
have happened is that you you lost
there we go
cool
so we have the bot choice being
determined by our function up here
which is returning rock paper scissors
we now have the ability to randomly see
if we win tie or lose
and then we can call it so the name of
this function is check win
so we can throw in
statistically you should always throw
paper
like if you're picking a choice you
should you should throw paper most
people throw rock the first time
yeah it's like it's like 60 to 70
percent people throw rock the first time
and so you should all you statistically
should throw paper the first time
got you now you know
alrighty
so we have our check win let's go ahead
and make sure the code looks good i'm
going to give you a second to look at
this rock paper scissors
looks good
look at the check win see if it looks
good because we're gonna do a a little
yolo my friends a little yolo here let's
go into yolo
all right
let's just make sure it's working first
let's comment out this other stuff up
here just so we don't have to um
deal with that boom
boom save it let's come back let's
refresh
these power rangers
photos are lit
all right so we got a loser
we got a winner
got a winner we got a tide so it's
working you saw the code you might there
might be some discrepancies i don't know
i mean i wrote some bad codes and maybe
sway the options here so let's go and
set up a yolo
let's start a prediction
are we going to
win or lose
win or lose commission period is one
minute
and start the prediction we win or lose
if it's a tie we run it again
all right get in here if you want to get
in here
win or lose
yolo those points
get your predictions in
people throwing around big points
got this
a million channel points already up
wow we might have a mill on each side
a milli millie
amelia milly
yeah
y'all throwing out tonight i see you
wow
1.6 million on each side in terms of
channel points
there's no timer right now
king's og a thank you for the hydration
cheers to
you yo i mean there's no timer
next timer we'll do another we'll do
we'll add two minutes though
all right you ready folks
for all the marbles
three
two
wait a minute actually let me tell let
me talk about something for a second
so
all right three
two it's going to get loud after after
this wins right i'm gonna get loud after
this wins so three
two
one losers win it
[Music]
way to go
way to go let's confirm it
losers have it
complete the prediction
you got your points
oh boy let's see whoa it was 2 million
on each side
2 million on each side 2.1 million for
winning and 2.1 million put up for
losing
and
sour sprite i think got
97 000
they spent 97 i can't do any more yolos
that's it we're done
am i at the end stream
they put out 97 000 in one
that's it that's the last yellow we're
done
someone also lost a lot too
oh that's wild
that's wild
all right and then
i always love that like
this is like the most like wholesome
gambling ever because as soon as someone
wins they immediately spend it on like
resume reviews portfolio reviews so like
[Laughter]
would it code as soon as they won their
yolo boom resume review
what a rush
[Laughter]
[Music]
i love it uh would it code send me a mod
mail please we'll set it up
you're all the best
all right let's keep pushing
uh we will skip the the loop we already
did that together um we'll come come to
office hours we'll do more of the loops
and fun stuff on um
office hours
all right
turbo review
done
erase chat what are arrays
one more
uh maybe maybe we'll we'll see we gotta
this is the best week ever we got a long
we got a long week folks we gotta say
some of the yolo love to go around
arrays are indeed toasters exactly
toasters well done i always hope that
new people join us right as we get to
this thing what are arrays toasters
all right arrays are like toasters it's
one element or one structure
that can hold a bunch of other
stuff
alrighty
the tricky thing about our arrays is
they start counting
right they start counting with zero so
the first element in the array is at the
zeroth index
we can create new arrays using this
array constructor which maybe makes a
little bit more sense now we have the
special new keyword and this array
what can you tell me about this array
this is this is really important we
haven't talked about this yet
but we know the new keyword is used to
help us create what so far
the other places might pop up but so far
we know the new keyword helps us create
what
helps us create new objects
and if we look at this what do we know
this is
just by looking at it what is it
it's a constructor function how do i
know it's a constructor function because
the first letter is capitalized so built
into javascript isn't a there isn't a
way to create a new array
using the built-in array constructor
which spits out an object
that's an array
that's some [__] ain't it
that's that's that's that right there
once this stuff starts clicking man i
love me some javascript
jb donna who a
thank you for the gift it subs i
appreciate it thank you for being here
so we saw new only in one place
we saw new when we were using our
constructors to spit out objects and
we'll see that again in a few seconds
but we only saw new when we were
creating um
when we were creating objects so when we
see this new keyword we should be like
all right as much as we know right now
it's used to create an object and we saw
it whenever it was combined with a
constructor function
right whenever it's created with
constructor function and we know that
this is a constructor function because
it follows the nomenclature that is to
have a capital letter a
right so right now we can see that this
is a constructor function that's going
to spit out an object that has all the
properties and methods that enable it to
be an array so when we create a new
array object
what properties does this object have
what does new array now have what are
some properties that it could have
length holy [__] what are some methods
you could have
for each map
holy crap that means somewhere built
into javascript is a constructor
function that's giving it the length
property that's giving it the 4-h that's
giving it the map that's giving all that
stuff like if we could go and like look
at the javascript source code what you
can do
you would see that they're out of this
constructor function is setting up
length is setting up for each it's
setting up map it's setting up reduce
it's setting up all those things that
we're using
all right
or we could just use little notation
who wrote all that
a lot of people over the years
the joke is that javascript was written
in 10 days and then it had a lot a lot
of time to mature after that
when we're declaring arrays we can pass
in values right we could have
any type of value that we've learned
about so far we can have strings
booleans numbers even other arrays can
go in there
what
seclusion hey thank you for the 10
gifted subs that's wild
thank you so much thank you for being
here
thank you everybody for all the subs and
and bits and all that fun stuff tonight
i appreciate you all thank you
hey appreciate it seclusion
all right
arrays start counting at zero is the
best week ever a turnout
array index we start at zero so if we
wanted the new york city out of this
array we have to use the zeroth index
that's how we could grab the first
element by the index of zero
cool
we can also get stuff out of the array
using the index and we can also put
stuff into the array using the index
if you're new around here folks we're
going through this quick this is meant
to be a lot of review
we can also use those properties that
come with our arrays like length a
length will give us the total number of
elements in the array
in this case if we looked at best colors
and we used the length property we'd get
four so down here best colors dot length
that's actually four
we can loop through our array
pulling out each color using an index
the very first time this runs i would be
zero we grab green one for blue two for
yellow three four black beautiful
we can even use built-in methods that
come with our arrays like for each we're
usually going to run once for each
element in our array so this case it
would grab green and zero blue and one
yellow and two black and three we could
pass it into this arrow function
wherever we see x it actually would be
green then blue then yellow then black
beautiful
cool
space review let's pull it up folks
let's pull it up
space
review take a look
alrighty so with our space review you
got some things to do here with a raise
some of these should look really
familiar should look really familiar
let's put five minutes on the clock
and
who gave us
yomi two gave us an extra two minutes so
we're gonna put seven minutes on the
clock thanks to yomi ii get as far and
as fast as you can we'll go over it
together and then we'll take our break
when we come back we look at objects we
spend more time with objects and
hopefully get to arrays
sorry get to
apis all right so we had five we'll make
it seven
let me stop the timer as far as you can
this should if you've already done this
you've already solved this great do it
again see how fast you can get it if
you're if you're struggling with it
great do it again see how far you can
get ten minutes on the clock
go for it
this is space
review space review
we'll go over it together and then we
will take our break
if you did it once before try doing it
with arrow functions try spicing it up a
little bit
time is flying yeah when time flies
we're having fun folks
move the clock down i got you
there we go
after the break gets objects and then
objects will lead us into the apis
jb donohue a thank you for the 1800 bits
that's wild thank you so much doing too
much i appreciate you thank you for the
get the subs thank you for the bits
thank you for being here
honda how many how many channel points
do you have
hey
[Laughter]
[Music]
flew too close to the sun eh
hundred dev speedo uh we did a hundred
des bikini i don't know if there is a
speedo on um
streamlabs merch but i would be open to
it if there was
man i gotta start practicing smash
brothers and stuff now that
people are getting closer
oh honda you're one yolo away
do you risk it all
i actually got to set it up now i gotta
say i don't even think it's set up right
now
um so i'll set it up i'm gonna go make
sure it'll be set up before uh
before uh thursday in case folks do hit
it
[Laughter]
you're the one that got it right yeah
i'm glad you enjoy it
i never really played halo that much
the whole the whole idea of like shields
is kind of
odd to me coming from cs
sour spray hey they give it a 10 gift of
sauce thank you so much for being here i
appreciate you
vladie yes we'll be announcing all that
stuff this week during the best week
ever
kangaroo not yet no time no time three
minutes left on the clock folks
first try the second question without
looking a there you go turn up
excuse me
done code words helped a lot with this
awesome good to hear
first time done before the timer code
that's awesome congrats
these are code words questions they are
intent
[Laughter]
shuffle a
even in the skies that's awesome
thank you for being here
we don't get got even in the air
got some dunzo's coming in that's good
to see
what
lady nozilla hey thank you for the gift
itself thank you so much for being here
probably evo
butter review
looked at the first one felt the answer
hell yeah
is it a bad thing if i knew exactly how
to do these on tuesday but forget now
not necessarily bad
but definitely a good reminder that you
might need to do a little bit more enkei
and a little bit more active recall
after class i know after class we do a
raid um but you definitely want to make
sure you get a little bit of reviewing
before you kind of shut the books for
the evening
um lou whenever somebody says they
struggle with maths i ask them first are
they studying right do you use active
recall to use space repetition have you
applied that to learning math because if
you haven't it's probably not your
aptitude of math which almost it never
is but more so your study habits start
there
is it bad if my brain shuts down
sometimes no
that's what that's that's what it's such
a good good thing to bring up
um everybody has levels that they can
actually focus
and a lot of folks jump in learning how
to code
thinking that they can do 10 hour days
and and and just no
we all have a different amount that we
can focus and getting comfortable with
that and then slowly pushing it up is
what the name of the game is and so
like for me like i shared my story
before i started off with stuff that was
wild one minute on 59 minutes off
because that's just where my attention
span was and i worked at it i pushed it
and it got up to the point where i feel
like i can focus or good blocks of time
but i'm still i still feel most
comfortable at like 45 15. i'm not even
doing like full hour do 45 minutes on 15
off is like where i feel like when i'm
having a good day that's right that's
where my peak hits
all right folks come back let's do this
together
then we'll take our break
alrighty create a rave number sum all
the numbers alert the sum
all right let
nums equal
uh
20 30.
cool 10 20 30
and then we'll skip one and go straight
to 50. beautiful
sum all the numbers alert the sum what
are some ways that we could sum all
these numbers
what are some ways that we could sum all
we could reduce so
maybe we do an alert
and in that alert we do nums
dot reduce
and then inside that reduce we know that
we have an accumulator and a current
value
and we know that we can add to that
accumulator
the current value
and always for safety we throw in the
zero
cool
let's save this and see if it works
did i open it i didn't open it
all right we got 110
in the alert
hell yeah
y'all that black range is lit
there we go beautiful all right
let's make sure that was the first try
yeah 10 20 30 at 60 60 plus 50 is 110
for straight
cool
so let's see what let's talk about
what's happening here
we know that we're inside of the alert
all right the alert opens and closes
here so all this stuff here is going to
reduce down to a singular number that we
now know as 110
right we know that that is 110.
and so what's happening when reduce is
running
reduce is a method that only works on a
what chat reduce only runs on a what
chat
what does reduce only run on
as far as we know yes an array
so we can see that nums
is our array
so we know that reduce
is going to use the values that are
inside of our nums array
and what reduce is going to do
is it's going to run once for each
element in the array so we have
four elements in our array
so reduce
is going to run 4
times
each time it runs we're going to grab
the value and plop it into the current
value
but first current value is going to be
then it'll be 20 then it'll be 30. then
it'll be 50. we're just pulling the
values
out of this array
passing it through our parameter of c
wherever we see it's the current
value
and all we're doing with reduce in this
instance is taking that current value
and in this case
adding it to the accumulator so
accumulator goes from
to
to 60
to 110 because what we're doing is
adding each of these values to that
accumulation
right we're just we're just adding it to
the pile that's all we're doing we're
adding it onto this pile of numbers
and so eventually this reduced all the
way down to a singular number
that was 110 and since we were inside of
the alert we saw the 110 get alerted
cool
there are other ways we could have done
this we had like a for loop that added
to a sum and then alerted it but reduces
the the easiest hearing something we've
seen and we definitely want to get
practice uh with these methods now
something that kind of bugs some folks
sometimes is that they think that this a
c c and c are built in no these are just
parameters we could call these whatever
we want
robot
and dino
right it just doesn't matter
it's still always going to be
the first parameter is always going to
be our accumulation when we're using
reduce
and the second parameter is always going
to be our current value when we're using
reduce so it doesn't matter what we call
them it's just the fact that since we're
using reduce
robot's going to be the accumulation and
dyno is going to be the current value it
just doesn't matter what what we do
when would you not want the initial
value to be zero if you're multiplying
right if you're multiplying you wouldn't
want it to be
set to zero the zero doesn't actually
need to be here right now
the zero helps when
you're worried about types
so let's say this wasn't a
number but instead of string the zero is
going to tell the accumulation to start
off as a number and not a string so that
we don't concatenate we just
actually do the addition
cool but this would still work
even without it
beautiful we get the 110.
all right next one
create a function that takes in an array
of numbers
return a new array of numbers that is
every original number
squared uh so whenever we know we need
to return a new array
right whenever we want to return a new
array what do we need
yeah map is the map is the way let's go
ahead and create a new array
and set it equal to
let's just use our nums from above let
me just do nums.map
and all we're going to do is we're going
to take in each number
and
it says square it so we'll do num
equals
num and then we can just square it by
doing what how can we square number
could do math.pal that's one way what
else could we do
num times num that's another way to do
it uh we could also do this too that's
another shorthand way of squaring
right so we could do num times num that
would be the probably the clearest way
but there are other some other shortcuts
like that that would also square
you could also do um
math.pal yeah
we're not doing square root we're doing
square which is different
cool
all right
and let's just see what that would be
and then oh do i have was it was it
console logged
oh no i didn't do anything with it did
it say to do anything
it does say to return it
so
we could do it as an inside of an arrow
function
if we wanted to
let me say just like numbs
oops sorry not here
there we go beautiful
so now what we're doing
is we have this set up as an arrow
function because this right hand side
has a what
this right hand side has a what
yeah it has an implicit return
yep has an implicit return meaning that
it's just going to return that that bit
cool
alrighty
this should have been kind of stuff we
saw last class
definitely make sure you're getting this
review in so that way when you see these
things for the second time you might
know how to approach it
all right next one
create a function that takes a string
print the reverse of that string to the
console
what could we do
n ends uh astrix actually two is just
another way of squaring it's just
something built into javascript that can
also help you square
yeah we saw how to reverse last time
split reverse join
split reverse join split reverse joint
split reverse join split reverse join
split reverse join is how we reverse a
string that should be in your anki you
should you should be able to
spit it out whenever you need
all right create a function that takes
in a string
print the reverse of that string so
let's say
uno
reverse
equals
we're going to take in a
string and
we are going to console.log
that string
split
reverse
join
beautiful
there we go
what split does is it takes the string
and turns it into a what
howdy sand
turns it into an array
once we have the array reverse can
reverse each in this case we split it
into individual letters
reverse can take those individual
letters and it can reverse them
and then once we reversed our array we
join it back together to get back a what
to get back a string exactly otherwise
we'd still be dealing with an array we
want that string back
why does
uh reverse not need quotes because when
they made the reverse method they didn't
need it to take in an argument to do the
reversing so we don't need to pass
anything in splitting needs to know how
you're splitting up the string are you
splitting it into individual letters are
you splitting it based on a delimiter
like a space or a comma same thing we're
joined how are we joining it back
together we're joining all the letters
back together are we joining them with
spaces et cetera et cetera
alrighty
create a function that takes in a string
alert if the string is a palindrome or
not
how could i do this create a function
that takes in a string alert if it's a
palindrome or not
what am i going to do here what am i
going to compare
yeah cool
so
let's do const
palindrome
check
equals
we're going to take in a string
and we're going to see if that string
equals
that string
split
reverse
almost
join
there we go
we know we're going to take in a string
we're going to see if it equals
uh
the same as that reversed and we're
going to throw this into an alert
so we get the alert
beautiful
so
if the string
equals the string reversed what do we
know that we have
if the string equals the string reversed
what do we know that we have
we have a palindrome exactly and so this
case it would evaluate to true and we
would alert true
if um if this was not the same backwards
and forwards we would get false and
would alert false so let's save this
let's go ahead and call our palindrome
check
and let's pass in race
car
let's save it
let's go ahead and refresh
and we get true we see true gets printed
sorry alert it because race car is
indeed a palindrome
is it bad practice to use
luna reverse we could use a reverse in
here
we could we could call uno reverse with
string we could do that
we could do
uno
[Music]
reverse
and pass in passive string as a
as an argument
but we would have to get rid of the
console log here
because we want it to return we need it
to be a return
not a console log if we're going to do
that
so let's save it
see if it still works
and we still get true so it's still
working
so what happened here let's let's do
this together
we have our function call
we're gonna pass racecar and is an
argument into our string
wherever we see string it is now racecar
right wherever we see string it is now
race car
and so we passed race car
into our uno reverse function
which is going to have an implicit
return
of race car but in this case race car
will be
reversed
and so now we can compare the string we
passed in
with the reverse of the string
using the function we did up here
this is the beauty of building out
functions that do singular things
because we can start to reuse them in
other parts of our code so now whenever
we want to reverse a string we no longer
have to build out this code to reverse a
string we can just call it as we need it
all right folks let's take a break
let's take a break if you need to come
back to this stuff come to office hours
we're going to do more practice almost
exactly like this during office hours
come on
on sunday we'll be doing it together
alrighty let's go ahead and take our
break when we come back from our break
we're jumping into our objects for quick
review and then hopefully getting to see
some apis before we wrap up today uh
what a great first day of best week ever
it's been all right five minutes on the
clock folks
bring it over
coder thank you for the bits i
appreciate you
all right
here we go cn5 if you're able please get
up move around hydrate i'll see in five
foreign
you
i forgot to run ads damn thank you i
forgot to though [__] sorry folks if you
get as my apologies
um
bob was popping off huh
all right come on back everybody let's
get into some objects have some fun
let's do some review
and
in
1992 thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
alrighty what are objects chat
what are objects
everything true
true but there's something specific we
said
yeah they're collections of variables
and
functions nice
questions of variables and functions
now when we're dealing with objects we
call those variables properties and we
call those functions methods
when we're thinking of objects i really
like to think of physical objects in
this case i always like to start
thinking off by like a stopwatch a
stopwatch has some
variables which we call properties and
it has some functions which we would
call methods because they're tied to the
object so
if i'm thinking of some properties i'm
thinking that this would have a
shape property that would have a value
of round
it could have a brand property that
would be equal to accusplit
it could have a model property of the
pro survivor 601 x 3v.1
that was a good one
it could also have a minutes property of
three
a seconds property a 59
it could have a color property of black
it could have an accent color property
of yellow
and there could be
a lot more other properties that we
could think of uh lanyard set equal to
true exactly water resistance set equal
to true right uh does that bluetooth
maybe that can be set to false i don't
know if this one has bluetooth maybe not
maybe the the 602x not the 601x yeah i
don't know
uh and then there's also some methods
some functions that are tied to this
object we have the ability to start and
stop we have the ability to split and
reset the ability to chain mode we have
the ability to beep uh so there are a
lot of
functions that are tied to this object
that we would call
methods
603 is to go you know it i know
i couldn't that the 603 is just a new
model like i only get the 601 my uh
photo
already
we saw originally how to i can't afford
the 603.
we saw originally creating a stopwatch
using what type of notation
what type of notation is this to create
an object yes nice
literal notation
and we saw that we were able to add
properties and methods using what
notation here what notation am i using
to add a property of current time and a
method of tell time
i'm using dot notation exactly i set
this equal to a value of 12 and i know
telltime is a method how come how do i
know that telltime is a method
because its value is a function exactly
it's set equal to a function and down
here i'm calling that function i can
know that i'm calling it because i have
the parentheses that we'd have with a
normal function call and i'm passing in
current stopwatch.currenttime as an
argument so we know that stopwatch the
current time is actually 12.
the 12 gets passed in wherever i see
time it is 12 and so this method call
would wind up printing to the console
the current time is 12. beautiful
me too hydra
alrighty
we have this objects lost galaxy code
now let's go and take a peek at it
and here we have i want you to create a
dog object that has four properties and
three methods no constructors
has four properties and three methods
we're gonna put
quick
you already have the files open because
you should open the whole folder we're
gonna put a quick two minutes on the
board here two minutes
you got this go fast dig deep i want a
dog object that has four properties and
three methods no constructor
go for it
old school dot notation please
quick two exactly
galaxy
goofer no you can do that
lost galaxy is uh
a version of the power rangers these are
all power ranger names
turbo space lost galaxy are all
runs of power rangers
how many more classes do we have the
power rangers team for
uh until we get through objects
i wasn't cultured enough hey we can't
all be
beetle boris was my [__] beetle bar is
way better
peterborough is my favorite show if you
if you
you if you grew up at upn we could be
friends
upn man back in the day
my beetle borgs and if you're a real one
like if you like a real real real one
mommy's alive
most people don't know about that
mummy's alive but that was my that was
my [__]
alrighty folks
come on back come on back let's do this
together
all right so we want to go ahead and
create a dog object so we can just go
ahead and say
let dog equal and then we have our curly
braces and then what are some properties
that you gave dog
dog.breed
equals
what kind of dogs y'all got
doodle
nice
uh dog
color
equals
golden
um
it's kind of [__] up
dog dot legs equals four and dog dot
name
equals
fido
cool so has four properties breed color
legs and name
and then how about methods what are some
methods that the dog has
dog.bark equals we'll set it equal to a
function
console.log
what else we got
dog dot jump
equals
console log
of
the last
off beautiful
and one last one
[Music]
we'll just say console.log
dot zoom
there we go that'll be our fetch command
beautiful all right so we have
four properties
dog with a breed color legs and name and
then also a bark a jump and a fetch
method well done cool
this was using
literal notation to create the object
and then dot notation to create these
properties and these methods however
if i wanted to create
another
dog
what's the problem we're going to run
into
now that's fetch exactly it is well done
ali's word if i could give you more
channel points i would
in fact send me a mod mail i'm getting
you a t-shirt for that one
it's really wet exactly i don't have to
repeat all this code all over again
i had to repeat this all over again
right
and i would have to redo the breed the
color the legs the name the bark the
jump the effect i do all over again
so
if
i want it
to have an easier way to create dogs
what could i use
what could i use if i wanted an easier
way to spit out dog objects yeah i could
use a constructor
let's go
so
you want to make a lot of objects we
need a factory uh our factory think
about like if you wanted to have a lot
of cars you create a car factory and
that factory could spit out a bunch of
car objects over and over again we have
the same thing
in javascript we have the ability
to create
a function
that spits out
objects
so here is a make car
constructor it's a function
it's a function
that spits out
objects
that's it
we're using factory as an example there
are things called factories and
programming that's not what i'm talking
about i was just talking about like
legitimately like a car factory
all right now if we look
any car that comes out of this
constructor will have a make property a
model a color a doors and it will have
two methods honk and lock how do i know
that the objects are going to have a
make a model a color a door is a honk
and a lock how do i know the objects
themselves are going to have those
properties and those methods
this exactly when i say this dot make i
mean the object itself is going to have
this property of make it's going to have
this property of model and have this
property of color it's going to have
this property of doors and have this
method of hunk it's going to have this
method of lock so down here
when i create a new
honda civic what i am saying is this
special new keyword we know we see that
keyword we're going to create an object
we're creating an object using the make
car function we pass in honda we pass in
civic we pass in silver we pass in four
we know that the object that is created
right here is going to have a make a
model a color a doors and a hunk and a
lock method
right so it's gonna have three sorry
four properties and two
methods
alrighty now
we can do it again when we want to
create a new car we see the new keyword
object now we're going to make another
object we're using the make car function
again however passing in different
values so we're able to reuse this
constructor over and over and over again
making our code way drier than it
normally has been when we were doing it
a few seconds ago and we can create as
many cars as we want
beautiful
we also had this idea
of a prototype
and a prototype is just a fallback
source
of properties and methods
the
objects
that come out of our make car
constructor
can always check themselves for a
property and value
and if the object does not have that
property or value it can go up its
prototype chain
it can ask where it came from hey make
car constructor do you have this value
and if it doesn't have that value can
keep going up the prototype chain until
it hits the what what's what's the stop
of the prototype chain
grandma it is grandma
the global object prototype everything
inherits from this global object
prototype a lot of times when we've been
using methods or properties that the
objects that we were using didn't have
it's because they were going up the
prototype chain to get them so the
example we gave last class is
let's say i didn't have a car
i could go ask my mom if she had a car
and if she doesn't have a car she could
go ask grandma if she had a car and if
grandma has a car
i have a car it's the same thing with
properties and methods the object checks
itself hey
do i have
bluetooth
and right now the tesla roadster would
not have bluetooth when we created that
object it did not have bluetooth
but what we could do
is on that constructor's prototype
add bluetooth so when the tesla checks
itself it will not see bluetooth but it
will go up to the constructor prototype
and since the constructor prototype now
has bluetooth guess what the object that
was created from that constructor now
has
bluetooth so we can just think about it
as a fallback source of properties and
methods
generational wealth exactly
if the object itself doesn't have a
property or method it goes to where it
was created if where it was created does
not have that property or method it
keeps going up the chain until it gets
to this global object prototype and if
it has it it has it
cool
beautiful
all right
right here we know that
tesla roadster has a doors property
but if we look at this
car factory or this make car constructor
we see that there's a honk method and a
lock method
does this
object does the tesla roadster that came
out of this constructor
does it have a two string method
no
does the make car constructor
have two string
no
so how come this works how are we able
to take the number of doors which is two
and get string two back
grandma had it exactly grandma was
holding on to that two string method
where'd you get the pink 50s from
grandma right it went all the way up the
prototype chain until it got to the
global object prototype that global
object prototype had the two-string
method and so it got passed all the way
down and we can use it here even though
the object didn't have it the
constructor didn't have it and we went
all the way up the prototype chain to
get it beautiful
all right i want us to open up tony hawk
pro skater please
tony hawk pro skater
save this
all right tony hawk pro skater we have
some javascripts we got index.html so
i want you to create a tony hawk pro
skater constructor that makes a
skating game character
with four properties and three methods
all right
tony hawk pro skater contractor that
makes a skate again character with four
properties in three minutes if you've
never played tony hawk pro skater that's
okay it's a skateboarding game so think
of some things
that a skateboarder would need think of
some properties think of some methods
but i want you to use a constructor this
time no
no literal notation use a constructor
we're going to put
four minutes on the clock here
four minutes on the clock
actually we'll do five minutes i want
you to really type this out i want you
to really type this out five minutes on
the clock no copying and pasting if you
have to go back and forth to the slides
you can but go ahead and build me a tony
hawk pro skater five minutes on the
clock we'll review it then we're moving
on to apis folks we got time
we game dev now exactly so far we've
built street fighter we're building tony
hawk look at us go
we've been hanging out with uh lena lux
too long
look at us we're we're game devs now
shout out to lux too you're hanging out
there you're missing out
all right folks go for it
i could play goldfinger and not get
demonetized or not demonetized
content id blocked on youtube i would
got this folks
three minutes 30 seconds can we see the
constructor slide yeah we can bring that
up
there you go
i know nothing about skateboarding make
it up
yeah the remake is pretty solid i've
played it for a little while yeah it's
pretty dope
been played on pc it's been nice
just for the music alone
do a kick flip
you don't need commas with constructors
when setting properties no you do not
because you're not literally creating an
object it's a function that spits out an
object
i like aldering i have not played it i
have not had any time for video games
recently which is really sad but
true i've watched some people play it
like just in passing but seems cool i
never really played any of the souls
games though
two minutes folks you got this
is the cs go server up maybe maybe best
week ever
maybe it's coming
i have a few surprises up my sleeves
at least you got ads during the work
time
i never thought to do that just play ads
during the break time like the work time
that might be a way to get around it
oh
hst
dhx thank you for the posture check
good one
get in here
i had to copy and paste i'm sorry
no need to be sorry sometimes we gotta
doggy i messed up
i changed it live though
hey
good stuff atlantic
how do we see properties we add with the
prototype and our constructor you won't
see it in the initial constructor that
you make but if you open it up in the
inspector you probably see it
i can try nice
lazy we're not there yet we'll get there
all right folks come on back let's go
over this together
alrighty
so let me go ahead and uh
open this up
create a tony hawk pro skater
constructor that makes a skating game
character with four properties and three
methods so i'm gonna create a function
uh tony
hawk
there we go all right tony hawk
character
and why did i capitalize the t
why did i capitalize the t
engagement now
because the constructor does the
capitalization actually do anything
nah
it just lets us know that it is a
constructor all right so what are some
properties that i should have
what are some properties that i should
have
it's just a convention exactly
all right this
dot character name equals
and we'll just say name and then we'll
not name let's go ahead and do
um
go ahead and say character name i just
wanted to be a little bit different for
each one so people can see
cool
next but that's something else
we have stance that's a good one
and we'll just call this character
stance
cool
this dot what else
it's a
uh
sponsor that's a good one
sponsor eagles we'll say character
sponsor
oh and one more
let's say
signature move i like that special move
we'll say special
move and we'll say uh character move
cool now this
[__] should name true stance to sponsor
to move these all have to be what
what do these all have to be
let's be parameters because everything's
gonna be passed in
to name
a stance
just sponsor
and to move
on
all right so we got our properties what
about our methods
what should our methods be
like what what should our character be
able to do
be able to
okay like flip
i see
taunt and
grab so we can do flip taunt and grab so
flip
equals a function
and we'll just say
let's make it easy on ourselves
console.log
uh what's a good flip trick
i'm going to say kickflip for now
kickflip
so our character can only kickflip
that's the only flip trick it knows
all right
next
this dot we said taunt
and we can do a function and we can
actually mention our special move
and we can say like console.log
and we can just use our ticks
don't make me use my
and then inside of where we put our
variable we can say this dot
special
move
all right so you can make it say don't
make me use my and then
they could say their special move
and then i think the last one we said
was grab
this dot grab and let's just hard code
another grab trick what's that what's a
good grab trick
sailfish mel and grab
method
yeah
i'll know y'all play some
some tony hawk
i'm gonna say melon
melon grub
all right cool
so now we can go ahead and create a
character uh let's go ahead and create
the best character in the game
we'll say
kareem
campbell and then we're gonna need the
new keyword why do i need the new
keyword
darth maul
why do we need the new keyword
to make a new one exactly to make a new
object we want that object that's the
character's gonna help us we're gonna
call our constructor function tony hall
character we're gonna pass in their name
which is kareem
we are going to pass in
their stance which is goofy
we're going to pass in their sponsor
which is element
and we're going to pass in
their special move
uh which is the ghetto bird
for folks that have actually played the
game hey
cool
all right so let's go ahead and save
this
and then let's open this in the browser
and if we open uh such a
so much nostalgia in that photo
let's use our inspector
let's go to the console
and let's ask for kareem campbell and we
can see when we get kareem campbell we
get back a tony hawk character
that has a name a flip a grab a special
move a sponsor a stance and a taunt so
it looks like our constructor worked
first
alrighty
thought this was ice skating
[Laughter]
alrighty
we got a little bit of time left let's
let's kind of go let's jump into the
future folks
uh we have a new syntax that we'll get
into on tuesday
on tuesday we're going to look at
with the newer versions of javascript we
got some syntactical sugar
right
nothing underneath the hood changed we
still have prototypal inheritance but
when folks came from other
class-based languages they felt a little
uncomfortable
understanding what prototypal
inheritance was doing and it didn't look
similar to other languages
so with the newer versions of javascript
we got the class syntax
nothing changes under the hood
it just makes it look a little sweeter
and so you can see that it changes up a
little bit we have like this constructor
on its own the methods are kind of on
their own now and so when we come on
tuesday we'll start using classes a
little bit more effectively but
understand as you're doing the reading
there's nothing that really changes
under the hood it's just syntactical
sugar nothing really changed it just
looks a little bit better
cool
now
apis
i love me
some apis
i used apis for
probably years
before i actually ever
understood
what the heck an api meant
api bottom jeans
so what the heck are apis
apis are something very very simple
they are a simple interface
to do something complex that's it
an api is a simple interface
that enables us to do something complex
so what the heck do i mean by simple
interface
all right right now you are all watching
me
on a crispy
4k camera that's getting downscaled to
1080p but i still look good
the best week ever right
if i wanted to turn this camera off
what is the most primal thing i could do
what's the most primal thing i could do
to turn this camera off
so he like smash it
i could smash it i could throw it on the
table and smash it that's not something
i want to do
something else primal i could do is i
could just rip the power cable out
because i'm not running on battery i'm
running on actual power kit i can rip
the power cable out and the the camera
would shut off
now does sony
want me
smashing the camera
or
ripping out the power cable
every single time i want to unplug it
no
sony does not want me doing maybe they
actually do maybe they do want me to do
this that i buy more of them right but
no they don't want me to ripping out
power cables they don't want me smashing
cameras they've given me an interface
that enables me to turn on and off the
camera what's the interface that sony
has given me to turn on and off the
camera
it's a button
it's a power button
and so sony has given me a very simple
interface
to do something very complex think about
everything that has to happen when i
press the power button right like the
the the their software running on the
camera that hears that button
turns off the the power system makes the
capacitor turn off all these wild things
have to happen
when i press that power button
and it's the same thing when i turn it
on when i press that power button all
these wild stuff has to happen
for that camera to turn on do i really
care at the end of the day
what's happening inside that camera when
i press the power button
no
i just want it to turn on and i want it
to turn off
so sony has given me a simple interface
for some complex action in this case the
complex action
is the turning on and off and the
interface is a button
another example of this is like when you
go to a restaurant
the restaurant gives you a very simple
interface to get food
what's the
interface
that the restaurant gives us to get food
yeah it's a menu
it gives they give us a menu
and that menu
is a very simple interface where we can
point to something
and get that food now if i click if i
look at that menu and i want my noodle
soup
i don't really know what's happening
when i make that request
i don't know what's happening in
the kitchen
i have my interface which is my menu i
ask for my noodle soup and something
happens and i get noodle soup back
but i don't know what's happening in
that kitchen
the chefs are chopping onions they are
getting bean sprouts together they're
getting noodles together they're getting
um
broth together they're compiling all
these things to make my noodle soup and
i actually don't know and i really don't
care how they chop the onions how they
put the bean sprouts into the pot i
don't really care how they do all that
stuff all i want
is my noodle soup
so at a restaurant i have a simple
interface
that enables me to make a request
and i get that soup but i have no idea
what's happening in that kitchen
apis are the same thing
they are a simple interface for some
complex action however the interface
we're going to use first
is a url just a regular urls like we
have here for the slides that we had for
the check-in that we had for the merge
everything is just a url
and we're going to use these urls to
make a request
but instead of it being a kitchen that
request is going where
where is that request going it's not
going to the kitchen it's going to a
server exactly the server is going to
hear that request
and it's going to send some response so
just like our request that we have of
the menu goes to the kitchen and comes
back with something we use urls to make
requests
to a server and that server sends
something back so our simple interface
is a url
the complex thing that's happening is
the server hearing that request grabbing
data maybe talking to a database to get
the data formatting the data and then
sending it back to us so we can use it
and so that's what happens
when we are utilizing apis
we are going to make a request to a
server
using a url
that server will hear the request grab
everything it needs to grab and then
send a response
this response in the beginning is almost
always going to be something called json
or javascript object notation it's
basically an object that's coming back
from the server so we use a url
that url makes a request to the server
instead of the server sending a soup it
sends us a big old object
we can then use that object
right we can use that object
to get the data and pull the data out
right so we use url to make a request
the server hears that request builds us
a big old object and then sends that
back just like we would get our soup
back and then once we have that object
we can do whatever the heck we want with
it so
the very first thing i want to do is get
some cute dog photos
and so here
is the syntax
to make a request to a url so i'm just
going to copy this real quick
we're not going to get our fingers on
the keyboard with this tonight that'll
be tuesday
but i'm going to open up my dog photos
javascript i'm just going to paste this
in
let's go ahead and save this
and let's make sure that it works let's
go ahead and open this
in
the browser
boom
open this in the browser
let's open up the inspector
let's go to the console
all right and we can see
something really interesting happened
i
made a request
and i console logged what came back
don't worry i'm going to break down
what's happening here i console logged
what came back can we see what came back
from the request do you see it
do you see what came back from the
request
this big old object came back from the
okay so let's let's take a look at it
here is our interface the url that we
are using
we use this fetch method
to send that request
to the server
this url is actually going to the dog
ceo server there is a server out there
on the internet
at the dog.ceo
url that is listening for these fetch
requests
and when it hears these fetch requests
it goes and grabs some data from its
database
right it grabs some data from its
database and then it responds with that
data in the form of an object
so this first thing right here is saying
hey
whatever we get back
from the kitchen whatever we get back
from the server
make sure that it's json data parse it
look at it as though it was json data
and then whatever we get back
we passed through the parameter of data
right we pass through the parameter of
data so whatever we got back from that
dog ceo api
is going to now be console logged
right if there was an error we would see
an error in our console log
but we see right now we're just console
logging all the data so let's go ahead
and look at that data we got back i'm
going to open this up a little bit
we can see that there were two what in
the object that we got back
there were two what in the object that
we got back
there were two properties
message
and status so the dog ceo api heard our
request and sent us back a message and a
status so the cool thing is we can
actually drill in a little bit here
i just want the message property and
let's see what happens when i just ask
for the message
property
so i'm just going to ask for the message
property now
and when i refresh
when i refresh
you can see right now i'm just getting
the what i'm getting a what now
i just asked for the message property
and it's it's a what what what data type
is
this it's a string
it's a string but that string is a url
and if we look closely it's a url to an
image
so we could actually use this we could
use this
this this uh lovely
image url we could use it
and so let's go ahead and use it so
uh if we look in our html
we see that we have a lovely image
tag
let's see if we can plop the message
that we got from
the api
into the source
all right so let's go and try that
we know that the url or the image url is
in data.message so we can just do some
dom manipulation here document
dot query selector
we're going to target our image and what
are we going to change about the image
what are we going to change what what
are we going to what are we going to
change about the image we're going to
change the source
and we're going to set the source equal
to data dot
message
beautiful so whatever we got back from
the api is being passed into data we
want that message property which was the
image url and we're going to use that
image url to change the source of the
image that's already in our html so if
we go back and we refresh
oh
we're just going to get these lovely
cute dog photos i'm going to keep
refreshing here for a little bit
dawg
oh
so every single time i refresh
i am making a request to the server
and the server is sending me a new
object and each time that object has a
new
has a new image url in it and i can keep
using that image url and each time i
refresh i get a nice cue oh that we
gotta end here a nice cute dog photo
that shows up in our
in our
lovely
age
so this is just the very very beginning
of
what apis can do
because there are so many apis out there
we saw one that returns dog photos but
there are so many apis that return so
many other really cool stuff
we could get pokemon back from the
pokemon api we could get drinks from the
cocktail database once you know just
this very simple pattern
right this very simple pattern and you
find the different urls that we can use
as our interfaces the whole world opens
up we can start getting cool data back
from all these different servers we can
start manipulating it and using it in
really cool ways and so to me this is
where
it starts to pay off
it starts to be a lot of fun you can
start to build some really cool stuff
because it's no longer just your data
that you're using you can use this data
from so many other people and companies
that make the stuff available to you and
so
on thursday we're doing some git and
github
sponsored by microsoft as part of the
best week ever but we're going to end on
tuesday spending our day
building and playing with apis which i'm
telling you it's the next level it's so
much fun you're gonna really enjoy it
and so remember
tonight was day one tomorrow we're going
and hanging out with hello's rufio don't
remember i'll send you a reminder on on
discord thursday we're back for a
sponsored class by microsoft so much
swag so many laptops so much cool stuff
to give out friday
we have a wonderful friday with friends
on discord saturday we're taking over
reddit place sunday we're back for
office hours monday we're doing a
portfolio resume review session and then
tuesday we're back at class you don't
have to show up to everything
we're gonna have some fun so come join
us when you can hope you all had a
wonderful first day of the best week
ever we're going to do a raid uh let's
go over to our good friend uh juicebox
hero they're live i want to keep the
good energy going if you haven't given
them a follow please give them a follow
they're an amazing individual great
streamer so let's go ahead and set that
up
beautiful all right
send up the raid
thank you so much for a great class for
a great stream for the first day of the
best week ever
really excited to spend the rest of the
week with you all let's go ahead and
raid
youtube